PETE LEPAGE: Add to Home
Screen behavior on Android
is changing to give
you more control.
The page lifecycle API
tells you when your tab has
been suspended or restored.
And the payment
handler API makes
it possible for
web-based payment apps
to support the payment
request experience.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 68.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If your site meets the Add
to Home Screen criteria,
Chrome will no longer show
the Add to Home Screen banner.
Instead, you're in
control over when and how
to prompt the user.
To prompt the user, listen for
the beforeinstallprompt event,
then save the event and
add a button or other UI
element to your app to indicate
that it can be installed.
When the user clicks
the Install button,
call prompt on the saved
beforeinstallprompt event
and then Chrome will show the
Add to Home Screen dialog.
To give you time to
update your site,
Chrome will show a mini
info bar the first time
the user visits a site that
meets the Add to Home Screen
criteria.
Once dismissed,
the mini info bar
will not be shown
again for a while.
I've got a post with
full details, including
code samples that you can
use, linked in the description
below.
When a user has a large
number of tabs running,
critical resources such
as memory, CPU, battery,
and the network can
all be oversubscribed,
leading to a bad
user experience.
If your site is running
in the background,
the system may suspend
it to conserve resources.
With the new page
lifecycle API, you
can now listen for and
respond to these events.
For example, if a tab
needs to be discarded
to conserve memory, the browser
will fire a frozen event
where you can store
any necessary state.
Then, when the user
refocuses the tab,
the resume event
is fired, making
it possible to restore
any previous state.
The spec and an explainer
doc are on GitHub,
linked in the description.
The payment request API is
an open, standards-based way
to accept payments.
The payment handler API extends
the reach of payment request
by enabling web-based
payment apps
to facilitate payment directly
within the payment request
experience.
As a seller, adding an
existing web-based payment app
is as easy as adding an entry to
the supported methods property.
If a service worker that can
handle the specified payment
method is installed,
it will show up
in the payment request UI,
and the user can play with it.
[? EG ?] has a great
post that shows
how to implement this
for merchant sites
and for payment
handlers, so check
the description for details.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 68
for developers.
Of course, there's plenty more.
Content embedded in an iframe
requires a user gesture
to navigate the
top-level browsing
context to a different origin.
Since Chrome 1, the CSS cursor
values for grab and grabbing
have been prefixed.
We now support the standard
un-prefixed values.
Finally-- and this
is a big one--
the HTTP cache is now ignored
when requesting updates
to a service worker,
bringing Chrome in line
with the spec and
other browsers.
All the details, including links
to docs and specs and more,
are in the description.
And be sure to
check out the latest
"New in Chrome
DevTools" video to learn
what's new in DevTools.
Then click the Subscribe
button and you'll
get an email notification
whenever we launch a new video.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 69 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.